---
layout: post
title: "Budget cameras for 2023"
subtitle: "Jorden's top budget cameras"
date: 2023-10-10
author: "Jorden"
header-img: "img/post-bg-2015.jpg"
catalog: true
tags: [New, Cameras]
---



Hello everyone and welcome to the channel! Today we will be talking about cameras and what I believe to be the best budget entry level camera for 2023, so without further ado let's get into it!

So let's say you want to get into photography a simple google search for the right camera can be pretty overwelming. There is so much out there DSLRs, point and shoots, some even say your phone is enough but you need the perfect camera so I made this list for you guys. 

## Canon G9

First up on the list is the Canon g9. This point and shoot camera was first relased in 2007, but don't let it's old age fool you. Coming in at the low price of about 100usd the Canon G9 is an excelent choice for people that want a little more out of their shooter rather than a phone. This point and shoot is equiped with a 12.7 megapixel camera, 9 axis focus points, and a 6x zoom lens. What more could you ask for at just 100usd. Oh, and did i mention it does video?

## Yashica Elecctro 35 GSN

For you old souls out there that can't get enough of those retro vibes, the Yashica Electro is the camera for you. Yet, I gotchu guys with another steal this 35mm rangefinding beast comes in at about 100usd. What more can I say about the Electro? Go get one!

## Canon 5d

Next, we have another Canon camera (can you tell I'm a fan?😁) the first full frame on the list we have the canon 5d older than the G9 the 5d is not a force to be reckon with, coming out in 2005 this camera changed the professional photography game forever. With a 12.7 megapixel sensor your images will be just as detailed as they are swaggy. This camera also uses interchangable lenes via the EF system so you'll have access to over 80 diffent lenes from focal lengths 8 to 1200mm. I found a used 5d  on ebay 
with 2 lenes for about 200usd. Not bad for full frame guys defenitly check this one out!

## Panosonic Lumix G7

If video is your thing look no further! The Lumix G7 is an entry level mirrorless camera that came out in 2015. This cinematography beat is capable of shooting 4K video recording at 30 or 24 fps. Start your filmmaking journey with this one and still take some stunning stills ;) with the 16 MP Live MOS sensor. The G7 also comes eqquipped with micro four thirds lens system mount for all your needs. You can find these cameras used for about 200usd with the kit lens or about 500usd new.

## Canon r8

Last but defeintly not least we have the heavy hitter, the one that does it all the Canon r8. If you want to get into making content of any kind I cannot recommend a better entry level system than the canon r8. Coming in an about 1400usd new the canon r8 truly is the end all be all. This tiny mirrorless dslr is packed with a 24.2 CMOS full frame sensor that is capable of shooting 4k raw video oversampled from 6k at 60fps and 40 fps burst photography with it's electronic shutter. This tiny beast also uses canon's latest rf systemt but if you have some old ef lenes you can pick up an adapter for that aswell. There is so much more I can say about this camera because it truly is in my opinion the swiss army knife of cameras but I think you guys need to check this one out yourselves!


And that's a wrap you guys thank you for reading and I hope this helped you make a descion. As always stay swaggy and get out there and make some art!

-sandyCheeks
